Okay. Let's talk through some of the key issues with
Kubernetes and why on one hand has incredible power.
It's essentially a cloud in a box it can run billions of instances each week at Google,
but that complexity also can cause problems.
Let's take a look at what a Kubernetes cluster really is.
From the onset, you see that there's
this large cluster here and where can this cluster run?
It can run locally if you have Docker Desktop installed and you've installed Kubernetes,
that's actually one of the simplest ways to get Kubernetes cluster running.
You can see that in fact it also needs to create
this Kubernetes master node with the Kubernetes API.
So that's how everything works.
That's how the kubectl command is able to communicate with everything.
Then next up is this pod here.
You can see that there are many pods typically in a cluster.
Unfortunately, there's even more complexity in
that each pod can contain many different containers.
Up until now we've been working with
just this one docker container but in a large-scale system,
there's often going to be mini containers located inside of
one pod and then there will be potentially mini pods inside of one Kubernetes node.
Then inside of the Kubernetes cluster,
there's mini Kubernetes nodes,
so there's a lot going on.
Now, why would you want to do this and what's the point?
Well, one of the reasons why you may want to have
separate pods in a node is that potentially
one pod contains your web application and you can scale it specific to those needs.
It could be maybe,
it'll has certain CPU requirements and
then potentially another pod in a Kubernetes node could be maybe the monitoring.
So you could have some monitoring that goes and sends it to,
let's say, Prometheus or extends it to stackdriver.
In potentially in a different system here,
you could have a pod that has
maybe a relational database or a specialized queuing system.
So it's really a way to identify what components
fit naturally together and it's not necessarily at the application level,
it could be from a resource perspective.
So let's go ahead and get rid of some of this complexity and
walk through how to actually use Kubernetes on my desktop.
So I'm going to move this screen away,
and I'm going to briefly look at what the final project would look like.
So let's look at the structure here,
you can see there's all the good things we've talked about,
a Dockerfile, Makefile and an app file.
Now one of the things that I typically do when there's a complex series
of commands is I will go through and create a script here.
So let's go ahead and look at one of these scripts.
So I'm going to look at this run Kubernetes script.
Let's go and look at that.
If you look at it,
I have to set a Docker path and again this is for a local Kubernetes cluster.
I then have to run the kubectl command and again, that's the API.
Then it's really in a way similar except for in this case,
I have to tell it which port I'm going to run
on and actually label what the name of the app is.
Next step, I run this command get pods,
just to get a list of what pods are actually running and what's inside of them.
Then finally, I forward the container port to the host.
So you can see that it is going to allow me to test it.
So first up, let's see if anything is running.
So what I can do is I can say kubectl get pods.
This allows me to query and see, oh great,
I have this thing, a pod running.
But remember a pod can contain mini containers.
In this case we just have one and next up,
what I'll do is I'll see what port it's running on.
So we know that the app we'll listen eventually on port 80.
So let me go ahead and curl that,
oh I'm sorry, 8 thousand.
Let me go ahead and curl that and see if anything is running currently.
So if I curl that,
you can see nothing's running.
So I'm not forwarding those ports.
So let's go ahead and run potentially this whole script here.
So I'm going to go through here and do this run Kubernetes command. There we go.
Now, what you can see is that it is in fact this pod was already running,
so it gave me an error,
but it did now forward this next port here and so that's what this command is right here.
So next step, I can leave this in the foreground and I can open up
a new tab and this new tab one might go head and try to run that curl command again.
There we go. Now you can see that in fact I've been able to expose that port.
So this is one of the best ways to really experiment with Kubernetes is to,
in my opinion, put the commands into a batch script,
step-by-step, play around with it and there was no way to hide it,
Kubernetes is extremely complex and emerging technology and it's
going to take some skill to walk through and step-by-step figure out what's happening.
The best way to do that is in
the smallest possible environment so you can limit the complexity of what you're doing.
Alright, why don't you go ahead and do this on your own.